So I hope you were successful,
this is the array of servers,
now let's start by creating a new component first.
This is the server.vue file and I will copy my servers.vue file in there,
remove this object though and also remove the unordered list and the wrapping div,
I only want to have the list item here.
I'll leave the class,
I'll remove the for loop and now I only want to output the ID here.
Well for that, I will need my default object and set up some props because the ID shall be passed in
from outside, from my servers.vue file, here
I'll know I get the ID so in the servers.vue file here, I want to remove the list item here, instead
I want to import the component I just created in the server.vue
file, without the s, I'll name it server from ./server.vue and then I'll set it up as a local
component in my object here,
so under components, I'll register it with a selector of app server which remember, I can use with app-server
in the template then if I want,
so assign the server I'm importing to it and therefore I can use app server here, like this or if I prefer
that with a dash in between, app-server and I want to pass the ID to that.
Now in order to be able to pass an ID, I first need to loop through it,
so with v-for, I'll loop through my server in servers where servers of course refers to the servers property in
the data field here
and since I do that, I can then pass an ID to each component which gets created throughout this loop
where I want to set ID equal to server.id accessing the individual objects here through which I'm looping
and then the ID field in each object in each well loop iteration. With this, I am creating a couple of
servers,
we're seeing it here and I'm outputting the IDs,
that's the first step.
Now I also want to be able to click on a server to load the details here in the other component,
well to be able to click on a server, I will add a click listener to this list item and to see this hand
cursor symbol, I will simply add cursor pointer style to that,
that's not vuejs, that's normal
css and html.
So here, I will then listen to a click and execute server selected let's say, therefore we should add
a method here in
the methods object, server selected would be the name of the method which I am executing up there
and here, I want to inform the parent that a server was selected.
What do I want to do with that information?
I want to change my server details, now for that to be changed,
informing the servers which is the parent of the individual server is not enough because server
detail lives in the app.vue file.
So I could go from server with a custom event to servers with a custom event to app and ID to do this
because custom events don't propagate up
but that's not what I want to do,
I will use a bus instead.
So here, I will export a constant and I'll name it serverBus which is a new vue instance and then in my
server file here, I will import this, this serverBus here,
the naming is of course important because I named it in the main.js file too,
it has a name there and I need to import that from going up one file, one folder excuse me and going
up another folder from the main.js file.
And with that in here, I can call serverBus.$emit and I want to emit an event here,
I will name it server selected and I will pass the ID,
so this ID referring to the ID I get in here as a prop. Now with the event being emitted here, I
can go to the server details where I want to import this serverBus as well because here is the place
where I want to change something, so I'll import thsi from the main.js file too.
And then in the object I have here,
I also need the created lifecycle hook to then listen to serverBus on, so with the on method, to listen
to the server selected event and then I want to change some data.
So here, I will add the data property which again is a function returning the data object
and here, I want to set up the server which is loaded and this is null at the beginning because it's undefined,
we haven't loaded a server yet
and here in the callback, I want to set this and I want to get the new server as an argument therefore
set this server equal to server, that will then allow me to access things like the server status
ID.
Now to do that however, I need to go back to server and here, I only get the ID passed in as a prop,
well let's change this,
let's instead get the whole server and output server.ID instead
here in the template and for this to work, I need to go to my servers component here too and not only
pass the ID but the whole server in each loop iteration, this hold server object.
With that in place, I'm now outputting it here or I'm getting it here to my server details correctly
and whenever I select a server, server is set to something else
and this allows me to override this template, add a new paragraph where I use v-if to check if server
is actually set and if it is not set, I want to say please select a server and otherwise, I can use
v-else if,
if this is the case, if a server is selected, I say server number and then we set server ID selected
status and then output the server status.
So if that was too fast, what I did is in the server component,
I implemented a method
to well basically listen to clicks on this list item
where I emit the server selected event on my serverBus, the serverBus is set up here in the main.js
file.
And with that server selected event, I want to pass,
well not the ID but the server,
this needs to be adjusted.
The server is a prop I'm getting set from outside,
it gets set here in the servers.vue file where I loop through all the servers and create the app server
component,
this is the one living in the server.vue file and I passed the server of the current loop iteration with
the server props I set up there, this props,
so this is set in this loop where I loop through my array of servers. With this set up,
we still see all these servers but if I click on one, we see it now changes to the server we actually selected.
The missing piece now is a button on the right which allows me to change the server status back
to normal, now to change the server status back to normal,
I will go to my server details component and there, I will add a horizontal line, say change to normal
on a button I added
and here, I want to execute or listen to a click event and set reset status
for example, add this in the methods object,
I have to add it to my vue instance therefore.
So here I have reset status as a method
and in here, I can do it very very easily by simply saying this server status equals normal
and then you might say ok and now we need to pass it back and update it in this array of servers here
but we don't. Keep in mind this is an object
and I said earlier, objects are reference types, therefore the objects in this array only exist once
each, one place in memory for each of these objects.
Now when I pass them to another component, it's still the same object, I'm only copying the pointer to
this place in memory,
hence if I added my server in such a component like here in the server detail component, it still edits
the same place in memory,
you will see this in action here.
If I click on any server, critical here, I change it to normal, I navigate away and I select server
2 again, it's still normal because it was edited in this array because server or because this object
is a reference type. That was a rather long exercise
but we practiced a lot of the things we saw in this lecture.
I hope you feel confident using props and custom events and event buses to communicate across components
and manage your state and pass data.
With that, let's move on.